>> Jem Young: Okay,
everybody's looking confident,
that means you're probably done.
Or you're wrong and you have a typo and
you don't know it yet.
We'll find out real fast.
So let's go ahead and run that.
So if we just run node simpleServer.js,
which I already did here,
node simpleServer.js
>> Jem Young: And
in your web browser, just point yourself
to your local host on port 8080.
>> Jem Young: You should see
something that looks like this,
let me blow that up a bit.
My bookmarks are showing.
You
>> Jem Young: Nothing to it.
I shouldn't say that, when it comes to
engineering I try not to say simple, or
it's easy,
because that's totally relative.
And then if you don't get
it makes you feel bad.
But this is the simplest
server I could think of.
There's probably someone out there who
can write one assembly, well it's not
technically simpler, probably
slightly faster, it doesn't matter.
But the point is anything can be a server.
And we can script a server
in every language,
every web language there's
a way to write a server.
Let's go back and
see what are we doing here.
What we're doing is we're in node,
we're importing the http library.
And then http has this ability to create
a server, and we're just gonna write
to the output, to the response,
we're gonna writes Hello World.
And we're listening on port 8080.
And we're setting a console just to
let you know that the server is up and
running once we get it going.
The basics of every single node
server you're ever gonna use
is this call back with request response.
It may be, you might use promises,
you might use async await, but
there's always gonna be request response.
And the third parameter is usually next,
which is used for
creating middleware when you're
saying do this request and
then pass it through these middleware and
then respond.
But in this case, we're not using any of
that, but be familiar with this pattern.
I probably won't get too much into it,
there are other Frontend Masters'
courses which go much, mush deeper into
note servers, much more granular level,
and we'll think those out later.
But in general it's always
going to be request response,
that's the basic pattern to every
single nodes server you'll ever write.
And we're listening on an arbitrary port,
it could be port,
I don't know 6304 or
even 6305, it doesn't matter.
Generally ports below want
to say 1000 are reserved, so
the internet runs over Port 80, on HTTPS,
the Internet runs over port, anybody?
>> Speaker 2: 443
>> Jem Young: Yes, 443, yes, very good.
There's this concept of reserved ports and
pretty much
anything below 1000 is probably
reserved by some program or language.
So you don't want to mess with those, but
choosing an arbitrarily high number
like port 8080 is usually pretty safe.
And we're in localhost, I can also type,
that's just shorthand for 127.0.0.1.
Whoops, am I running Nginx,
[LAUGH] I am running Nginx.
Usually 127.0.0.1 is a loopback command.
It's just saying instead of going out to
the Internet and hitting a server on port
8080, I'm just gonna hit my
localhost running important at 8080.
I have Nginx running from
a different configuration.
Don't worry about that you didn't see
anything, just pretend that didn't happen.
But generally, when you're running,
doing local development,
you're always gonna hit your localhost.
If you do remote development, you can
hit remote host, and that's a server.
Or if you're wondering how I did the line
numbers, I put it in the notes here, but
in them it's good to try that.
And I'm just gonna kill this command.
See if you wanna show the line
number oops, I hit Esc,
last line node, and I'll say set number.
I think that's right, yes,
thanks to my line number.
>> Jem Young: And if I want to hide them,
I think say set number again.
Oops, nope, no number.
I like that, it's simple, to the point.
Set no number and
[INAUDIBLE], just in case.
I'm not trying to do anything that
you're like, well, how did he do that?
I want you to know everything I know,
except my in depth knowledge of Fast and
Furious trivia, that's mine.
No one else can have that.
>> Jem Young: And right clear.
>> Jem Young: That server,
let's the simplest,
bare bones way of creating an application.
Or, like Sam said,
something that responds to requests.
Pretty straightforward,
we can handle this.
And now we're going to get much more
advanced this is this is as simple
as it gets.
And now we're going to pick
up a little bit of speed.
We're talking about servers at scale,
because obviously I can't run
frontendmasters.com on my laptop.
I probably could, actually you'd be
surprised that how efficient servers
are now, but it's really not a good idea.
It gets more complicated,
which we'll talk about the complications,
that's why we're here.
If servers were this simple,
everybody would be full sync engineer.
[LAUGH] But they start off really,
really simple, as far as these servers go.